CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, before:

## Code of Conduct for Contributing to api-response-shaper

we’re thrilled that you want to contribute to `api-response-shaper`! to ensure a positive and protective environment for everyone involved, please adhere to the following guidelines.

## Contribution Workflow

1. **Fork and Clone**: Start by forking the `api-response-shaper` repository on Github and cloning it to your local machine:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/lazarus-org/api-response-shaper.git
    cd api-response-shaper
    ```

2. **Create a Branch**: Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix:
    ```bash
    git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
    ```

3. **Install Dependencies**: Use Poetry to install the project’s dependencies. if poetry isn’t installed, refer to the [Poetry installation guide](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation)
    ```bash
    poetry install
    ```

4. **Write Code and Tests**: Make your changes and write tests for your new code. Ensure that all tests pass:
   ```bash
    poetry run pytest
    ```
5. **Run Code Quality Checks**: Ensure code quality with Pylint:
    ```bash
    poetry run pylint response_shaper
    ```

6. **Commit Your Changes**: Use Commitizen to commit your changes according to the Conventional Commits specification:
    ```bash
    cz commit
    ```

7. **Push and Create a PR**: Push your changes to your fork on GitHub and open a pull request:
    ```bash
    git push origin feature/your-feature-name
    ```

8. **Bump Version**: Use Commitizen to update the version.
    ```bash
    cz bump
    ```

9. **Generate Changelog**: Create a changelog with Commitizen:
    ```bash
    cz changelog
    ```

10. **Export Dependencies**: Export the project dependencies for development and production:
    ```bash
    pip install poetry-plugin-export

    poetry export -f requirements.txt --output packages/requirements.txt --without-hashes
    poetry export -f requirements.txt --with dev --output packages/requirements-dev.txt --without-hashes
    ```

## Commitizen Message Rule

Commitizen follows the Conventional Commits specification. Your commit message should be structured as follows:

```
<type>[optional scope]: <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

## Example of Commit Messages

### 1. Initialization of Core
```
feat(core): initialize the core module

- Set up the core structure
- Added initial configurations and settings
- Created basic utility functions
```

### 2. Release with Build and Tag Version
```
chore(release): build and tag version 1.0.0

- Built the project for production
- Created a new tag for version 1.0.0
- Updated changelog with release notes
```

### 3. Adding a New Feature
```
feat(auth): add user authentication

- Implemented user login and registration
- Added JWT token generation and validation
- Created middleware for protected routes
```

### 4. Fixing a Bug
```
fix(api): resolve issue with data fetching

- Fixed bug causing incorrect data responses
- Improved error handling in API calls
- Added tests for the fixed bug
```

### 5. Update Documentation (Sphinx)
```
docs(sphinx): update API documentation

- Updated the Sphinx documentation for API changes
- Added examples for new endpoints
- Fixed typos and formatting issues
```

### 6. Update Dependencies
```
chore(deps): update project dependencies

- Updated all outdated npm packages
- Resolved compatibility issues with new package versions
- Ran tests to ensure no breaking changes
```

### 7. Update Version for Build and Publish
```
chore(version): update version to 2.1.0 for build and publish

- Incremented version number to 2.1.0
- Updated package.json with the new version
- Prepared for publishing the new build
```

### 8. Adding Unit Tests
```
test(auth): add unit tests for authentication module

- Created tests for login functionality
- Added tests for registration validation
- Ensured 100% coverage for auth module
```

### 9. Refactoring Codebase
```
refactor(core): improve code structure and readability

- Refactored core module to enhance readability
- Extracted utility functions into separate files
- Updated documentation to reflect code changes
```

### 10. Improving Performance
```
perf(parser): enhance parsing speed

- Optimized parsing algorithm for better performance
- Reduced the time complexity of the parsing function
- Added benchmarks to track performance improvements
```

Thank you for contributing to `api-response-shaper`! We look forward to your contributions.

Commit message:

:books: docs(README): Add middleware section & include detail of new features
Closes #31

CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, after:

## Code of Conduct for Contributing to api-response-shaper

we’re thrilled that you want to contribute to `api-response-shaper`! to ensure a positive and protective environment for everyone involved, please adhere to the following guidelines.

## Contribution Workflow

1. **Fork and Clone**: Start by forking the `api-response-shaper` repository on Github and cloning it to your local machine:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/lazarus-org/api-response-shaper.git
    cd api-response-shaper
    ```

2. **Create a Branch**: Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix:
    ```bash
    git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
    ```

3. **Install Dependencies**: Use Poetry to install the project’s dependencies. if poetry isn’t installed, refer to the [Poetry installation guide](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation)
    ```bash
    poetry install
    ```

4. **Write Code and Tests**: Make your changes and write tests for your new code. Ensure that all tests pass:
   ```bash
    poetry run pytest
    ```
5. **Run Code Quality Checks**: Ensure code quality with Pylint:
    ```bash
    poetry run pylint response_shaper
    ```

6. **Commit Your Changes**: Use Commitizen to commit your changes according to the Conventional Commits specification:
    ```bash
    cz commit
    ```

7. **Push and Create a PR**: Push your changes to your fork on GitHub and open a pull request:
    ```bash
    git push origin feature/your-feature-name
    ```

8. **Bump Version**: Use Commitizen to automatically update the version number based on commit messages.

   First, confirm the current version in the Commitizen configuration (`pyproject.toml`) under `[tool.commitizen]`. For instance:
   ```text
   [tool.commitizen]
   version = "1.1.0"
   ```
   Next, run the following command to bump the version:
    ```bash
    cz bump
    ```
   Commitizen will analyze your commit messages and increment the version (major, minor, or patch) according to the Conventional Commits specification.

9. **Generate Changelog**: Create a changelog with Commitizen(only for the new version tag):
    ```bash
    cz changelog --incremental
    ```
    the `--incremental` option limits changelog updates to only the new version tag, leaving previous entries unchanged. After generating the changelog, add it to the staging area and commit it manually:

    ```bash
    git add CHANGELOG.md
    git commit -m "docs: update changelog for new version"
    ```
   This separate commit avoids including the changelog entry in the release notes, keeping them focused on code changes.

10. **Push Code and Tag**: Push the updated code and new version tag to GitHub.

   ```shell
   git push origin feature/your-feature-name
   git push origin tag <tag-name>
   ```
   The first command pushes your code changes, and the second command pushes the new version tag created by Commitizen. This ensures that the tag is available on GitHub, which is useful for creating releases and tracking versioned changes.

11. **Export Dependencies**: Export the project dependencies for development and production:
    ```bash
    pip install poetry-plugin-export

    poetry export -f requirements.txt --output packages/requirements.txt --without-hashes
    poetry export -f requirements.txt --with dev --output packages/requirements-dev.txt --without-hashes
    ```

## Commitizen Message Rule

Commitizen follows the Conventional Commits specification. Your commit message should be structured as follows:

```
<type>[optional scope]: <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

## Example of Commit Messages

### 1. Initialization of Core
```
feat(core): initialize the core module

- Set up the core structure
- Added initial configurations and settings
- Created basic utility functions
```

### 2. Release with Build and Tag Version
```
chore(release): build and tag version 1.0.0

- Built the project for production
- Created a new tag for version 1.0.0
- Updated changelog with release notes
```

### 3. Adding a New Feature
```
feat(auth): add user authentication

- Implemented user login and registration
- Added JWT token generation and validation
- Created middleware for protected routes
```

### 4. Fixing a Bug
```
fix(api): resolve issue with data fetching

- Fixed bug causing incorrect data responses
- Improved error handling in API calls
- Added tests for the fixed bug
```

### 5. Update Documentation (Sphinx)
```
docs(sphinx): update API documentation

- Updated the Sphinx documentation for API changes
- Added examples for new endpoints
- Fixed typos and formatting issues
```

### 6. Update Dependencies
```
chore(deps): update project dependencies

- Updated all outdated npm packages
- Resolved compatibility issues with new package versions
- Ran tests to ensure no breaking changes
```

### 7. Update Version for Build and Publish
```
chore(version): update version to 2.1.0 for build and publish

- Incremented version number to 2.1.0
- Updated package.json with the new version
- Prepared for publishing the new build
```

### 8. Adding Unit Tests
```
test(auth): add unit tests for authentication module

- Created tests for login functionality
- Added tests for registration validation
- Ensured 100% coverage for auth module
```

### 9. Refactoring Codebase
```
refactor(core): improve code structure and readability

- Refactored core module to enhance readability
- Extracted utility functions into separate files
- Updated documentation to reflect code changes
```

### 10. Improving Performance
```
perf(parser): enhance parsing speed

- Optimized parsing algorithm for better performance
- Reduced the time complexity of the parsing function
- Added benchmarks to track performance improvements
```

Thank you for contributing to `api-response-shaper`! We look forward to your contributions.
